Let's talk about how I made the
slides for my TEDx presentation,
I use primarily PowerPoint and the version on the Mac
here is similar to the version on Windows.
I actually created this using both the Windows
and the Mac version of PowerPoint, they're similar.
But before I get started,
I want to show you one quick thing.
So if we go to view here.
And then we go to the notes page.
Because I had to memorize this 15 minute speech, right?
And there's a lot of complex clicks for transitions.
I actually wrote all my notes just to practice,
I certainly didn't read these the day of.
Okay, so.
If we click here to the next notes page,
you'll see that this is just
what I have to say on each slide.
Okay?
You can go back to the first intermission if you want
to watch me critique
and watch the whole video of the TEDx talk.
Okay, so I'm gonna click here quickly.
Each slide and you'll see here
are all the items I had to memorize.
And again, I had a lot of transitions here.
And a lot of animations.
And so I had to really practice this one a lot.
All right, cool, so I think you get the idea.
Great.
And you can look at this,
it's in the file that I'm providing you.
But I provided you the file in Dropbox format.
As a link,
only because it's three or four hundred megabytes,
a massive file.
Okay, I digress.
Let's go back here to,
normal.
Okay, it's very graphics intensive as you can see.
Okay, so.
I want to first of all talk about transitions.
Most of the transitions I did from one slide to the next,
were either fade,
which just kind of fades from one slide to the next.
Or I used nothing, or I used morph.
Which is very, very powerful.
And a keynote, they refer to that as magic move.
If you're interested in how to do magic move for keynote,
just go back to act four, scene one.
and then it was the fourth lecture,
where I described how I created a keynote presentation.
Okay, cool.
So,
when it comes to,
special fonts like this.
Just watch scene two of act four
and you'll see how I made these.
It was using Final Cut Pro.
Which is a free download for 30 days
and it's available in many languages.
You don't have to make fonts like that, though.
Let me go through this quickly.
All right, so I used morph a heck of a lot here.
In the past, people would use very complex animations.
And they'd insert different paths for items to move.
And that sort of thing.
And I have some of that in here,
but in interest of time and simplicity,
I just want you to use the morph feature.
To get morph basically moves one,
it moves one item from one slide to the next.
Let me just start a new file very quickly here.
And right click.
Microsoft always anticipates
when you try to do a right click.
And I'm gonna paste that heart there.
And then if I wanted to have that heart get resized here.
Then what you'd do is you would
go here to transitions, morph.
And then when you click play, watch this.
Next slide, boom.
Big heart, that's it.
Great.
So that's the morph feature that I use quite a bit here.
You'll see from this slide to this slide,
I actually just morph that edge.
Because I morphed it there
and I'll show you what it looks like.
Okay, let me go up a slide.
Here you go.
So you'll see that it's gonna fly in.
And all I did,
close that out.
All I did was I actually hid this little
graphic on the previous slide somewhere else.
I'll show you, let me zoom out.
Okay.
See it there?
It's actually hidden.
And then it just zooms right in,
when I transition to the next slide.
It goes from here,
directly to here and again when it comes to images,
I'm not gonna talk about how I made images here,
because I already talked about it at length.
In scene two of act four.
All right, so that's morphing.
And I did that quite a bit.
So for the England flag icon, I had it here.
And then here it just transitioned
or morphed from one side to the next.
Let's resize this now.
And let's keep going down through here.
These are just morphs, so for the Chinese flag,
I just morphed it, as well.
And the same thing with this down here.
See how it moved there?
So the Chinese flag should move from there to there.
Let's see how that worked.
Click play.
There you go, isn't that cool?
So all I did was I morphed there.
So it's just from one slide to the next.
You click morph,
and then it just moves there around.
Morph is very powerful, please don't get bogged down
with creating animations and customized paths.
Because morph is just a lot easier to do.
Just play around with this presentation if you have time
and you'll see how simplistic it is.
I'm trying to help you work smarter and harder.
And so for this slide,
what I did was I zoomed in.
I'll show you.
I zoomed into that black coffee cup on the right side there.
TEA, Technology, Education and Acceptance.
It's very graphics intensive.
So if you try it on your computer,
it might be a little bit slow.
Make sure all your other programs are closed.
All that you're seeing there,
is just a transition, see?
Using morph.
So if I go here.
Here we go.
So it's just morph.
And I just took an image and morphed it closer.
And the cool thing is you can actually morph
with letters as well.
It can morph as characters.
Basically, what would happen is if
those were the two same text files.
Let me actually go here and show you from scratch,
cause it's pretty cool, it's worth checking out.
Okay, let me do a new slide.
What we're gonna do, is we're gonna morph words.
Words are here.
I'm gonna copy and paste this here.
There.
So watch this.
So when I go to morph here.
You go to transitions.
Morph.
And then you have to select here words.
So watch this.
There you go, see?
It moved that T over, it morphed just for that one.
Let me show you again.
So I'll click preview.
Words are there.
Isn't that wild?
And you can even make it more complex.
If you wanted to, we can,
kind of have a couple words here
that have W in it and other similar letters.
If I were to create gibberish here.
Words rea threee, that's not even a word.
Let's just check it out for simplicity.
See how it moves it, isn't that wild?
Very cool.
Okay, that's the morph feature, very powerful.
Use it, I love it, please.
Okay, great.
Let's see what we have next.
And what I had to do, is I actually had to,
enlarge each of these images,
make it bigger, bigger, bigger.
so that it looked like I was zooming in,
but all I was using was the morph feature.
It's pretty easy, it's fun, too.
Let me zoom out a bit here.
In this transition here, let me show you what I tried to do.
I wanted to show you a three legged stool.
And then I wanted to show you how you can have it,
pointing to the future.
Watch this, see those three there?
And I changed the image for each,
to change the shading.
So I made it a bit darker.
Made it darker again, again it's pretty slow.
And then there.
And then,
you see that?
I want to show you how I changed the image here.
So what you do,
is you go to picture format.
It's the same image.
And I reset it.
See here, watch this.
Reset the image.
And then what I can do is I can go to artistic effects.
And I go down to this one.
See? Pretty cool.
All right, I'm not gonna talk too much about how
to make color images because we did
that in scene two of act four.
Great, control Z.
And then what I wanted to do is I want
to show you how the root of my argument,
is if you have technology, education, acceptance,
you can actually fix the world.
And the root of that is actually used using cloud computing
so it's kind of cute whenever I try to zoom in here.
And all I did actually was I just moved the image.
From one side to the next.
And then just did morph.
It was really, really simplistic.
So let me show you how that works.
Again, it's pretty graphics intensive.
All right, so we click here to the next slide.
You see that, so I moved those around.
Just using morph.
And I click there.
Isn't that cool?
Next slide.
Move those around.
Using morph.
Very powerful and the image in the background
we already talked about how to manipulate that.
Amazon web services and then when
you click to the next slide.
All that is there is,
you can just morph it.
Pretty simple, pretty simple.
That's it.
You see these here?
These are just my notes, don't worry about it.
So all I did was I took these icons here, these images.
And I just grabbed a bunch from the web
and I altered them again.
Go to act four, scene two if you want
to see how I manipulate images.
And I just kind of moved them around.
And then it morphs.
And whenever you see new items on a slide here for me,
like these ones here,
it's because I want to morph them.
In the next slide.
So if you see here,
what we're focused on, is here.
This isn't even in the picture yet,
but it will be in the next slide.
Watch this.
See?
All I did was I moved those items down.
And it morphed there.
It's pretty powerful stuff.
And then for this one, I actually did the same thing.
If we just hide this.
Let me zoom in a bit.
So this here is,
my Back to the Future flex capacitor I think it's called.
I love the eighties and then Ferris Bueller,
please watch that movie it's awesome.
And then all I did there was I just zoomed in.
Using morph.
It was pretty simplistic.
Pretty neat, pretty fun.
And play around with these a lot, if you want to.
Picture formats.
And I used animations in some parts.
And you can click on animation pane if you want
and it would show you all the animations.
but I don't want you to do that.
I just want you to use the more simplistic morphing feature.
And here, you can't see the image,
cause I zoomed way out and sometimes it doesn't show up,
it's kind of an issue with PowerPoint.
I love it, so I'm not gonna complain about PowerPoint,
it's a pretty good app.
So I just put a cloud on top of here.
It's really far away.
And then what I did was I zoomed in and these items here,
see how it disappeared?
They actually went onto the olive branch.
And I'll show you how that worked out,
again because it's so graphics intensive
sometimes it doesn't show up.
So I went here.
And I was kind of saying, "Hey, Washington and the world,
governments please fix education."
see?
Isn't that cool?
And I transitioned there.
And then for this one here,
I was saying, "come on, governments pay for education."
Fixes all problems in the world, et cetera.
All I did,
was,
I just used the morph.
And again for images, go to act four, scene two
and you'll see how I made them.
And let me show you what that transition looked like.
This one took me a while.
And again, it's just morph.
It's morph.
Okay.
Edtech now.
Click the next slide, it's actually taking a while, you see?
And what you could just in case this happens to you
and it freezes like this,
is you can do a record of the screen using Quicktime,
which is available on Windows and Macs.
And just go to act four, scene three to see how I made,
the videos using Quicktime.
It goes from one slide to the next.
And it actually,
there's an issue there in the background,
I'd have to fix that, but whatever.
So we have transitions from one slide
to the next using just morph.
It's really powerful.
It looks like I spent a lot
of time using complex animation but I didn't.
It's just the morph feature, which is awesome.
And I fast forward to these screens quickly here.
That's why morph didn't work, I went really, really fast.
Okay, whatever, you get the idea.
Okay for images here, these are just from Final Cut,
you don't have to use Final Cut,
you can create these using other applications.
Go to act four, scene two to check out how I did that.
Let me fast forward here.
And this here,
this was a lot of fun here.
So what I wanted to show here,
is that a lot of people will use YouTube in the future
to change governments from within.
So if there's,
issues where certain people don't have rights
which is ridiculous in some countries,
people will use YouTube to stand up
and change society from within.
And it was kind of a political thing for me to say that.
I shouldn't do that,
but I basically said I don't believe in war.
I think that you change society from within.
Okay, sorry, whatever, way off topic.
So let me show you how that looks.
So you go here,
and then when you click on the next slide,
watch this, you'll see all the YouTube's right there.
To change society from within.
This is a little bit off topic,
but it's kind of important.
I put the YouTube one here in the ocean at first,
cause there's no countries right there.
And I didn't want to make it look
like I was singling out any country.
Or criticizing anybody cause that's not what I do.
Okay.
And then here,
these are just images that I created
and morphed from one to the next.
And I was talking about,
how everyone's got freedom to water,
freedom to air, freedom to coexist religion wise, et cetera.
And leads to transition.
So I started with freedom water then freedom to air.
And then here, freedom to coexist.
You see there in the bottom?
Coexist, that's just a bunch of religious images.
Careful not to bring religion into your presentations.
But it was important for me here to say
we have freedom religion which is a beautiful thing.
And I made this image using Image Chef.
And you can just go to again,
act four, scene two to see how I made images.
And it's a website that I used that for,
it's really easy to get.
And then the top right hand corner,
I showed how education's very important.
And then I just transitioned here.
Transition again.
And I made those images with Final Cut,
which I showed you in act four, scene two.
Again, Final Cut's a free download.
For 30 days, then you gotta pay for it.
So just delete it if you don't wanna pay for it.
And then here,
I actually showed,
transitions again.
You see how that transition didn't work there?
I clicked the go ahead button too quickly there.
There we go.
And here on the bottom,
these are just images that I created.
And I wanted to quote Nelson Mandela.
"Education is the most important weapon,
we can use it to change the world."
and if you want to see the delivery of that,
just go to the first intermission.
Okay, here.
That's where I talked about John Lennon.
And then there,
and again it's all morph, it's way easier than you think.
That's my Jackie Chan quote.
He's awesome.
That was my Chinese proverb.
and then what I wanted to do,
was because i try to be consistent,
I talked about how I made this,
this slideshow and I wrote my text talk.
Part of it, when I was stuck on a runway in Ireland.
And the landscape was beautiful.
And look at that, pot of gold.
This is gorgeous.
And then what I did was,
I transitioned to the next slide here,
with saying,
this here's an Irish blessing.
And I actually read part of it,
I had to look at it on the screen.
I think I kind of forgot a bit to be honest.
And then I just transitioned here to TEA.
Can fix all problems.
And at the end I thanked the crowd
and that sort of thing.
All these images, I used within the presentation.
I thought it would be kind of a cool way
to throw it all together there.
And then I think if might've faded to black
or just left it as is.
And at the end of your presentations either fade to black
or show your contact details.
I actually didn't, I just went to end slideshow.
Okay, so that is that,
please let me know if you have any questions.
That's probably the most complex PowerPoint will get.
But again, just use the morph feature.
It is so awesome.
Thanks.